Hi, it's Doctor McClure. How are you doing today? Doing fine. Great. I know we're supposed to review your labs, but do you have any questions before we start? My ankle has been hurting. Did anything happen to it? I twisted it while running. It's been swollen and not getting much better. When did that happen? A week ago. Have you been able to walk on it since then? Yeah, just hurts. Have you been doing anything for your ankle? I tried some ice. Ibuprofen once kind of helps. Are you wrapping your ankle or doing anything to support it? No. What were you doing exactly when it happened? Running. Did you step on something? Do you remember which direction your ankle turned? I stepped on a rock. It was on a trail and twisted to my right. Got it. So you were supinating. Has this happened before? I think so, not as bad. Have you been running or doing any exercise since then? No, just some other exercises. What shoes are you typically wearing? Running shoes. I'll do an exam and see if you need X-rays. Anything else before we go to your labs? I've been feeling a bit tired, but I don't know if it's serious. You came in initially because you were feeling tired and more thirsty than usual. We got your hemoglobin A1C back, and it came back high. You have a family history of diabetes, so this indicates you have diabetes. Are you sure? Maybe the lab is not good? That can happen. I'd be happy to take a blood level today. In the meantime, let's talk about managing elevated sugar in your blood. What questions do you have about diabetes? How bad is it? Diabetes can be easily managed. Your feelings of being tired, thirsty, and peeing a lot can be from diabetes. High sugar in your blood can cause damage to blood vessels and nerves, increasing the risk of heart attack, stroke, and losing toes if not well controlled. That's scary. I'd like to do a foot test today and send you to an eye doctor. We'll get a few more labs. The most important thing is to make you feel like you can control this. Although diabetes runs in your family, you have control over how well it can be managed. What are you eating in a typical day? What did you eat yesterday? I didn't have breakfast, for lunch I had McDonald's, a cheeseburger, and a milkshake. Snacks in the afternoon like chips, and for dinner steak, potatoes, and salad. There are things we can work with. Changing what you eat can help keep a steady level of sugar in your blood. Do you know what a carbohydrate is? Yes, sugary foods like rice. Starchy foods like potatoes, bread, rice, or sweet foods like your milkshake. Do you drink soda throughout the day? Yeah, one or two. Switching to something without carbohydrates like water or sparkling water could help. Do you think you can make that change? If I have to, I can try. How motivated do you feel on a scale from 0 to 10? 10 is the most motivated ever. Seven. How confident do you feel about making this change? On a scale from zero to ten. Six. How come you don't feel like you're a three? Because 3 is low. How are you going to make this change so I can help support you? Maybe we should not buy as much soda and make it a rule to drink water for lunch. Do you live with anybody? My wife and our son. Do your wife and son also drink soda? Yes, probably not as much, maybe my son does. It can be helpful if the whole family makes a change in habit to support you. Soda doesn't have a lot of nutritional value, so having it as a once-a-week treat can help. Do you think that would be helpful? We can try. It sounds like it can help. Great. Let me do that exam on your foot.
It sounds like it can help. So I think that's a great first step. Let me just do that exam on your foot. Really glad that you've been doing exercise even when you're in pain. Doing other exercises besides running so that you can still move your body even if you have an injury. Does it hurt here? No. Does it hurt here? No. Does it hurt here? That hurts a little bit. I don't think you need an x-ray. I think you have an ankle sprain. Icing it is great. Ibuprofen can help reduce swelling and inflammation. Tylenol can be good for pain. I recommend icing it at least once a day and elevating it. We'll get you a wrap for more stability when walking so it doesn't happen again until you've healed some of those ligaments. Sound good? Yeah, sounds like a good idea.